I started my Steghub project by creating an EC2 instance on my already existing aws account. I proceeded to create a key pair to link to the remote server for my laptop more securely. Immediately it was setup, i updated the packages on the ubuntu linux system and proceeded to install apache webserver on my EC2 instance. Then after using the curl command to display the default apache webpage on my terminal, i proceeded to display the default webpage on my web-browser. I navigated to the inbound connection settings of my ec2 instance to allow my IP address connect to the server on port 80. Then i copied the public ip address of the ec2 instance into my browser search bar and i was able to diaplay the dafault ubuntu webpage.   

Next i installed my sql on my ec2 instance and then i ran the interactive script and then i exited mysql. Then, i ran the command to install php and the associated modules and libraries.

## SETTING UP VIRTUAL HOST
I created a domain called projectlamp in the **/var/www** directory of the linux system and assigned the ownership of the directory to my current user. Then i set up a configuration file using the vim editor in **/etc/apache2/sites-available** to set my projectlamp as a web root folder to be used my apache. I initially faced errors with the configuration file whcih i was able to detect with the **apache2ctl configtest** command. I had some spacing and indentation problems which i was able to fix and ran the command again to ensure i didnt have any errors left. Then i created the recommended html file in the projectlamp root directory and becaue i had already set up the inbound connections before, i was able to view the new webpage after i disabled the custom apche webpage. 