1. **Software development lifecycle** can be described as the cost and resource efficient process involves in the development and deployment of software. It streamlines the process of software development into phases or steps that are followed to help ensure it is delivered efficiently and in a timely manner. There are a few software development models used today in ensuring software delivery. They include:
    - **Waterfall model**: This is the process by which software is developed following w defined number of steps to ensure that all needs are met and the software is ready to be deployed. This includes the planning phase where the requirements of the software to be developed is defined, features and functions said software should contain, the resources needed to complete the software development process is taken into account. The programming language and other technologies that will be needed to complete the project is confirmed. Feasibility study is then carried out to ascertain need for the product in the market, how likely the software can do well and the existing competition on the market. After gathering all requirements from relevant stakeholders, we enter the design phase where the programmers and coders develop the software application. Then the testing phase where all the libraries and functionalities and tested to ensure that they are bug free. And then we enter the deployment phase. Waterfall model follows these processes sequentially.
    - **Iterative model**: This is commonly used for software development projects with a smaller scope originally. When the project is finished, the project team will expand the scope, adding more and more features incrementally. This model is good for small scale projects and projects that might have changing requirements as it gives opportunities to scale the project. 
    - **Agile methodology**: This is similar to the iterative model where usually there are two different environments for developing and deploying software. There is the build environment which is where all the software designing and implementation takes place. When the project team is satisfied with releasing the current build as the first version of the software ready for customers, it is pushed to the production environment where it can be deployed to customers. Any improvement or changes to be made on the products are done in the build environment and after testing and there aren't any problems, it can then be pushed to the production environment as a newer version.

2. **LAMP** includes a set of tools that is used to build websites and web applications. It consist of **Linux** which serves as the operating system of the server and the base for which all the other stack perform their functions. **Apache** is software installed on your Linux machine that helps configure a webserver using https with which browsers communicate with and allow you see the webpage of your static site. **MySQL** is a database that is used for storing, manipulating and querying data to be used by the webpage. **PHP** is a programming language that is used to display dynamic elements on your webpage and can fetch data for the database for the end-user based on what he clicks or prompts. These tools are essential for backend engineers in building dynamic web applications for the end-user.
3. **Chmod** is a command used to change the permissions of files and directories in a Linux system. There are two formats with which chmod can be used; the number and the alphabet system. For example in the number system 4=read, 2= write, 1= execute. The necessary permissions you want to give a file are added to together for the particular owner (user, group, other) you want to give the permission to. For example chmod 644 means the file ownership and permission will be changed to Read and write for the user and Only read for the group and other. File permissions are necessary to prevent unauthorized use for files that could harm your server.   **Chown** is used to change the ownership of a file in a Linux system to another user. 
4. Protocol are set of rules that governs how data is transmitted over a network. **TCP (Transmission control protocol)** and UDP **(User datagram Protocol)** are two of those methods used to transmit data. **TCP** establishes a secure connection before the data is transmitted. Once the data is sent, the receipt is verified to make sure that all the data are transferred. If not, it sends them again. They are traditionally slower than UDP but the delivery of the data is guaranteed. It is used in email, web browing, file transfer, text messaging.  
**UDP** does not require a secure connection to be established before transmitting data. It delivers data rapidly and does not verify if it has been received by the sender as it doesn’t confirm receipt and check for errors. It means some or all of the data may be lost during transmission. Because of its speed, it is used in Gaming, Livestream, Video and voice calling etc
5. Most commonly used ports include:
    - Port 20 and 21: File transfer protocol
    - Port 22: SSH
    - Port 80: HTTP
    - Port 443: HTTPS
6. **Vim** is a text editor on that is used to edit plain text files on a linux system. Vim is commonly used in editing important configuration files that are critical in the running of a linux system.